Abstract—Nowadays the installation of DERs is very popular all over the world. DERs bring partial independence from the external grid, fewer interruptions in the electric supply, economic benefits, improvement of the electrical energy quality and the green energy (in case of renewable DERs) to the systems of the prosumers. However, they also bring network congestions and increase the complexity of the energy management especially when the renewable DERs with their inconstant generation profiles are used. One of the possible solutions for these problems for the prosumers is to organize and join an energy community. Energy community members can both exchange electrical energy to maintain energy balance and sell excess energy to the operator. There are two basic energy management strategies for the community members: collective and individual. This paper focuses on determining the most beneficial one by simulating an energy community with different levels of cooperation and assessing multiple parameters.

Keywords—DER, energy community, optimization, Pandapower, Python.
I.	INTRODUCTION
As the technology of distributed energy resources (DERs) become more and more widespread, more and more consumers transform into prosumers [1]. As the name implies, prosumers are not just passive electricity receivers, they participate in all activities related to electrical energy - not only consumption, but also generation and storage [2]. This transformation leads to flexibility in grid management for both supply and demand sides. Yet it requires addressing the possible challenges and rethinking of distribution and transmission system operators’ management approaches and concepts of accompanying governance models.
Prosumers operate via microgrids, aggregators, virtual power plants, and local electricity markets [3]-[5] based on various location and control levels. Another concept that is relatively new and develops rapidly is energy communities or local cooperatives. It is not required for energy community members to be connected directly as it is done in the microgrids; energy communities might be distributed both geographically and topologically. The concept of local cooperatives is based on the community governance design [6]. The cooperation of the prosumers is the key reason for the optimal energy distribution, yet every prosumer is individually in charge of his equipment. In this way, the surplus or shortage of electrical energy of the communities may be neutralized by exchanging electrical energy with other prosumers, system operator or the markets.
